>> Jason Lengstorf: So
the way that the blog today is gonna work,
this is kind of a ride along, right?
So I'm gonna live code this whole thing
up here, and we'll all do it together.
I'm gonna go a little bit slow, but
I have a tendency to code pretty fast.
So I don't expect you to
get all of these things,
you're probably not gonna keep up with me
keystroke for keystroke, and that's okay.
We have regular checkpoints where you'll
be able to check out a branch to get to
where we are in the workshop.
And these kind of
encapsulate big concepts.
So if you get lost, if you fall behind,
don't worry, don't panic,
we will have a chance to skip ahead.
Let's build a blog.
All right, so at this point,
we should have the the package installed.
And so if you haven't run it already,
just run a quick npm install,
make sure we've got everything, and
let's take a look at this repo.
So what we've got is a fairly
straightforward Node module setup.
So if you've used this before,
you'll recognize the package.json.
Inside, we've got three dependencies,
gatsby, react, and react-dom.
Those are the only three dependencies
you need to build a Gatsby site.
>> Jason Lengstorf: We
also have prettier so
that we can format our code more easily.
That's an optional dependency,
you don't have to use that.
And up here, we have a handful of scripts.
So the one that we're gonna be using
most is gonna be the develop script.
We've also got a build script,
which we'll look at later.
format, if you just wanna fix the code.
If you aren't liking the way it looks,
you want prettier to fix it for
you, just run npm run format,
that'll do that.
And then serve is kind
of a test script for
build that we'll look
at a little bit later.
Inside of a Gatsby site, you've got your
kinda standard boilerplate, the README,
the LICENSE, the prettier config,
the .gitignore.
And then we have two folders here.
We've got a source and a static folder.
In the static folder,
we just have a favicon.
The reason we include that is so
that the browser doesn't complain about
not being able to find a favicon.
There's really no other reason for
that to be there.
And in the src folder we have a pages
directory, and then index.js.
And you can see here that index.js, it's
a very straightforward React component.
We are importing React, and
we're exporting some jsx.
If you're not familiar with React, don't
worry, the things that we're gonna do in
here today, I mean, we are writing React,
but we're not gonna go way overboard.
So don't worry if this
is a new syntax to you.
It will start to feel
a little more natural,
hopefully by the end of the workshop
if you just keep writing.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
that's the whole thing.
So the cache, the node_modules, and
the public, those are folders that
are handled by Code, not by us.
So we're not gonna go in there at all.
So really, all we've got in our
Gatsby site is an index.js.
There's not really any
other code to start.
And that's because Gatsby, again,
is designed to be no boilerplate.
We don't wanna have to do a bunch
of boilerplate to get started.
So let's start our site,
we're gonna do npm run develop.
And what this will do is, it will run
through kinda Gatsby's startup process.
This is doing all the things in
the background that normally
you would have to configure yourself.
And once that's done, it's gonna give us
this URL, this http://localhost:8000.
So I'm gonna grab this,
drop it into my browser.
And now we've got our running site,
this Hello Frontend Masters!
And so something that I love about Gatsby
is that right out of the gate we have
support for hot reloading.
Okay, so now if I save this,
it's gonna update right away.
So we're able to very quickly
see something in the browser.
And as you can see,
we didn't change any code.
There was no config, or
boilerplate, or anything.
We just set up our Gatsby site and
we're off to the races.
We're already seeing
things in our browser.